README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://coder.com#gh-light-mode-only">
    <img src="./docs/images/logo-black.png" style="width: 128px">
  </a>
  <a href="https://coder.com#gh-dark-mode-only">
    <img src="./docs/images/logo-white.png" style="width: 128px">
  </a>

  <h1>
  Self-Hosted Remote Development Environments
  </h1>

  <a href="https://coder.com#gh-light-mode-only">
    <img src="./docs/images/banner-black.png" style="width: 650px">
  </a>
  <a href="https://coder.com#gh-dark-mode-only">
    <img src="./docs/images/banner-white.png" style="width: 650px">
  </a>

  <br>
  <br>

[Quickstart](#quickstart) | [Docs](https://coder.com/docs) | [Why Coder](https://coder.com/why) | [Enterprise](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/enterprise)

[![discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/747933592273027093?label=discord)](https://discord.gg/coder)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/coder/coder/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=TNLW3OAP6G)](https://codecov.io/gh/coder/coder)
[![release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/coder/coder)](https://github.com/coder/coder/releases/latest)
[![godoc](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/coder/coder.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/coder/coder)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/coder/coder)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/coder/coder)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/coder/coder)](./LICENSE)

</div>

[Coder](https://coder.com) enables organizations to set up development environments in the cloud. Environments are defined with Terraform, connected through a secure high-speed Wireguard® tunnel, and are automatically shut down when not in use to save on costs. Coder gives engineering teams the flexibility to use the cloud for workloads that are most beneficial to them.

- Define development environments in Terraform
  - EC2 VMs, Kubernetes Pods, Docker Containers, etc.
- Automatically shutdown idle resources to save on costs
- Onboard developers in seconds instead of days

<p align="center">
  <img src="./docs/images/hero-image.png">
</p>

## Quickstart

The most convenient way to try Coder is to install it on your local machine and experiment with provisioning development environments using Docker (works on Linux, macOS, and Windows).

```
# First, install Coder
curl -L https://coder.com/install.sh | sh

# Start the Coder server (caches data in ~/.cache/coder)
coder server

# Navigate to http://localhost:3000 to create your initial user
# Create a Docker template, and provision a workspace
```

## Install

The easiest way to install Coder is to use our
[install script](https://github.com/coder/coder/blob/main/install.sh) for Linux
and macOS. For Windows, use the latest `..._installer.exe` file from GitHub
Releases.

```bash
curl -L https://coder.com/install.sh | sh
```

You can run the install script with `--dry-run` to see the commands that will be used to install without executing them. You can modify the installation process by including flags. Run the install script with `--help` for reference.

> See [install](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/install) for additional methods.

Once installed, you can start a production deployment<sup>1</sup> with a single command:

```shell
# Automatically sets up an external access URL on *.try.coder.app
coder server

# Requires a PostgreSQL instance (version 13 or higher) and external access URL
coder server --postgres-url <url> --access-url <url>
```

> <sup>1</sup> For production deployments, set up an external PostgreSQL instance for reliability.

Use `coder --help` to get a list of flags and environment variables. Use our [install guides](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/install) for a full walkthrough.

## Documentation

Browse our docs [here](https://coder.com/docs/v2) or visit a specific section below:

- [**Templates**](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/templates): Templates are written in Terraform and describe the infrastructure for workspaces
- [**Workspaces**](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/workspaces): Workspaces contain the IDEs, dependencies, and configuration information needed for software development
- [**IDEs**](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/ides): Connect your existing editor to a workspace
- [**Administration**](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/admin): Learn how to operate Coder
- [**Enterprise**](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/enterprise): Learn about our paid features built for large teams

## Community and Support

Feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/coder/coder/issues/new) if you have questions, run into bugs, or have a feature request.

[Join our Discord](https://discord.gg/coder) to provide feedback on in-progress features, and chat with the community using Coder!

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Read the [contributing docs](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/CONTRIBUTING) to get started.

Find our list of contributors [here](https://github.com/coder/coder/graphs/contributors).

## Related

We are always working on new integrations. Feel free to open an issue to request an integration. Contributions are welcome in any official or community repositories.

### Official

- [**VS Code Extension**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=coder.coder-remote): Open any Coder workspace in VS Code with a single click
- [**JetBrains Gateway Extension**](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/19620-coder): Open any Coder workspace in JetBrains Gateway with a single click
- [**Self-Hosted VS Code Extension Marketplace**](https://github.com/coder/code-marketplace): A private extension marketplace that works in restricted or airgapped networks integrating with [code-server](https://github.com/coder/code-server).

### Community

- [**Provision Coder with Terraform**](https://github.com/ElliotG/coder-oss-tf): Provision Coder on Google GKE, Azure AKS, AWS EKS, DigitalOcean DOKS, IBMCloud K8s, OVHCloud K8s, and Scaleway K8s Kapsule with Terraform
- [**Coder GitHub Action**](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/update-coder-template): A GitHub Action that updates Coder templates
- [**Various Templates**](./examples/templates/community-templates.md): Hetzner Cloud, Docker in Docker, and other templates the community has built.

Commit message:

chore: replace remote with cloud when referencing development environments; add Slack as an enterprise option for community sharing (#11375)

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://coder.com#gh-light-mode-only">
    <img src="./docs/images/logo-black.png" style="width: 128px">
  </a>
  <a href="https://coder.com#gh-dark-mode-only">
    <img src="./docs/images/logo-white.png" style="width: 128px">
  </a>

  <h1>
  Self-Hosted Cloud Development Environments
  </h1>

  <a href="https://coder.com#gh-light-mode-only">
    <img src="./docs/images/banner-black.png" style="width: 650px">
  </a>
  <a href="https://coder.com#gh-dark-mode-only">
    <img src="./docs/images/banner-white.png" style="width: 650px">
  </a>

  <br>
  <br>

[Quickstart](#quickstart) | [Docs](https://coder.com/docs) | [Why Coder](https://coder.com/why) | [Enterprise](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/enterprise)

[![discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/747933592273027093?label=discord)](https://discord.gg/coder)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/coder/coder/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=TNLW3OAP6G)](https://codecov.io/gh/coder/coder)
[![release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/coder/coder)](https://github.com/coder/coder/releases/latest)
[![godoc](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/coder/coder.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/coder/coder)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/coder/coder)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/coder/coder)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/coder/coder)](./LICENSE)

</div>

[Coder](https://coder.com) enables organizations to set up development environments in their public or private cloud infrastructure. Cloud development environments are defined with Terraform, connected through a secure high-speed Wireguard® tunnel, and are automatically shut down when not in use to save on costs. Coder gives engineering teams the flexibility to use the cloud for workloads that are most beneficial to them.

- Define cloud development environments in Terraform
  - EC2 VMs, Kubernetes Pods, Docker Containers, etc.
- Automatically shutdown idle resources to save on costs
- Onboard developers in seconds instead of days

<p align="center">
  <img src="./docs/images/hero-image.png">
</p>

## Quickstart

The most convenient way to try Coder is to install it on your local machine and experiment with provisioning cloud development environments using Docker (works on Linux, macOS, and Windows).

```
# First, install Coder
curl -L https://coder.com/install.sh | sh

# Start the Coder server (caches data in ~/.cache/coder)
coder server

# Navigate to http://localhost:3000 to create your initial user
# Create a Docker template, and provision a workspace
```

## Install

The easiest way to install Coder is to use our
[install script](https://github.com/coder/coder/blob/main/install.sh) for Linux
and macOS. For Windows, use the latest `..._installer.exe` file from GitHub
Releases.

```bash
curl -L https://coder.com/install.sh | sh
```

You can run the install script with `--dry-run` to see the commands that will be used to install without executing them. You can modify the installation process by including flags. Run the install script with `--help` for reference.

> See [install](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/install) for additional methods.

Once installed, you can start a production deployment<sup>1</sup> with a single command:

```shell
# Automatically sets up an external access URL on *.try.coder.app
coder server

# Requires a PostgreSQL instance (version 13 or higher) and external access URL
coder server --postgres-url <url> --access-url <url>
```

> <sup>1</sup> For production deployments, set up an external PostgreSQL instance for reliability.

Use `coder --help` to get a list of flags and environment variables. Use our [install guides](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/install) for a full walkthrough.

## Documentation

Browse our docs [here](https://coder.com/docs/v2) or visit a specific section below:

- [**Templates**](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/templates): Templates are written in Terraform and describe the infrastructure for workspaces
- [**Workspaces**](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/workspaces): Workspaces contain the IDEs, dependencies, and configuration information needed for software development
- [**IDEs**](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/ides): Connect your existing editor to a workspace
- [**Administration**](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/admin): Learn how to operate Coder
- [**Enterprise**](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/enterprise): Learn about our paid features built for large teams

## Community and Support

Feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/coder/coder/issues/new) if you have questions, run into bugs, or have a feature request.

[Join our Discord](https://discord.gg/coder) or [Slack](https://cdr.co/join-community) to provide feedback on in-progress features, and chat with the community using Coder!

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Read the [contributing docs](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/CONTRIBUTING) to get started.

Find our list of contributors [here](https://github.com/coder/coder/graphs/contributors).

## Related

We are always working on new integrations. Feel free to open an issue to request an integration. Contributions are welcome in any official or community repositories.

### Official

- [**VS Code Extension**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=coder.coder-remote): Open any Coder workspace in VS Code with a single click
- [**JetBrains Gateway Extension**](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/19620-coder): Open any Coder workspace in JetBrains Gateway with a single click
- [**Self-Hosted VS Code Extension Marketplace**](https://github.com/coder/code-marketplace): A private extension marketplace that works in restricted or airgapped networks integrating with [code-server](https://github.com/coder/code-server).

### Community

- [**Provision Coder with Terraform**](https://github.com/ElliotG/coder-oss-tf): Provision Coder on Google GKE, Azure AKS, AWS EKS, DigitalOcean DOKS, IBMCloud K8s, OVHCloud K8s, and Scaleway K8s Kapsule with Terraform
- [**Coder GitHub Action**](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/update-coder-template): A GitHub Action that updates Coder templates
- [**Various Templates**](./examples/templates/community-templates.md): Hetzner Cloud, Docker in Docker, and other templates the community has built.
