examples/templates/aws-linux/README.md, before:

---
name: Develop in Linux on AWS EC2
description: Get started with Linux development on AWS EC2.
tags: [cloud, aws]
icon: /icon/aws.png
---

# aws-linux

To get started, run `coder templates init`. When prompted, select this template.
Follow the on-screen instructions to proceed.

## Authentication

This template assumes that coderd is run in an environment that is authenticated
with AWS. For example, run `aws configure import` to import credentials on the
system and user running coderd. For other ways to authenticate [consult the
Terraform docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs#authentication-and-configuration).

## Required permissions / policy

The following sample policy allows Coder to create EC2 instances and modify
instances provisioned by Coder:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "VisualEditor0",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:GetDefaultCreditSpecification",
        "ec2:DescribeIamInstanceProfileAssociations",
        "ec2:DescribeTags",
        "ec2:DescribeInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeInstanceTypes",
        "ec2:CreateTags",
        "ec2:RunInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeInstanceCreditSpecifications",
        "ec2:DescribeImages",
        "ec2:ModifyDefaultCreditSpecification",
        "ec2:DescribeVolumes"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    },
    {
      "Sid": "CoderResources",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:DescribeInstanceAttribute",
        "ec2:UnmonitorInstances",
        "ec2:TerminateInstances",
        "ec2:StartInstances",
        "ec2:StopInstances",
        "ec2:DeleteTags",
        "ec2:MonitorInstances",
        "ec2:CreateTags",
        "ec2:RunInstances",
        "ec2:ModifyInstanceAttribute",
        "ec2:ModifyInstanceCreditSpecification"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:ec2:*:*:instance/*",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "aws:ResourceTag/Coder_Provisioned": "true"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## code-server

`code-server` is installed via the `startup_script` argument in the `coder_agent`
resource block. The `coder_app` resource is defined to access `code-server` through
the dashboard UI over `localhost:13337`.

Commit message:

docs: improve structure for example templates (#9842)
Co-authored-by: Kyle Carberry <kyle@carberry.com>
Co-authored-by: Muhammad Atif Ali <atif@coder.com>
Co-authored-by: Muhammad Atif Ali <me@matifali.dev>

examples/templates/aws-linux/README.md, after:

---
display_name: AWS EC2 (Linux)
description: Provision AWS EC2 VMs as Coder workspaces
icon: ../../../site/static/icon/aws.png
maintainer_github: coder
verified: true
tags: [vm, linux, aws, persistent-vm]
---

# Remote Development on AWS EC2 VMs (Linux)

Provision AWS EC2 VMs as [Coder workspaces](https://coder.com/docs/coder-v2/latest) with this example template.

<!-- TODO: Add screenshot -->

## Prerequisites

### Authentication

By default, this template authenticates to AWS using the provider's default [authentication methods](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs#authentication-and-configuration).

The simplest way (without making changes to the template) is via environment variables (e.g. `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`) or a [credentials file](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html#cli-configure-files-format). If you are running Coder on a VM, this file must be in `/home/coder/aws/credentials`.

To use another [authentication method](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs#authentication), edit the template.

## Required permissions / policy

The following sample policy allows Coder to create EC2 instances and modify
instances provisioned by Coder:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "VisualEditor0",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:GetDefaultCreditSpecification",
        "ec2:DescribeIamInstanceProfileAssociations",
        "ec2:DescribeTags",
        "ec2:DescribeInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeInstanceTypes",
        "ec2:CreateTags",
        "ec2:RunInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeInstanceCreditSpecifications",
        "ec2:DescribeImages",
        "ec2:ModifyDefaultCreditSpecification",
        "ec2:DescribeVolumes"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    },
    {
      "Sid": "CoderResources",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:DescribeInstanceAttribute",
        "ec2:UnmonitorInstances",
        "ec2:TerminateInstances",
        "ec2:StartInstances",
        "ec2:StopInstances",
        "ec2:DeleteTags",
        "ec2:MonitorInstances",
        "ec2:CreateTags",
        "ec2:RunInstances",
        "ec2:ModifyInstanceAttribute",
        "ec2:ModifyInstanceCreditSpecification"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:ec2:*:*:instance/*",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "aws:ResourceTag/Coder_Provisioned": "true"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Architecture

This template provisions the following resources:

- AWS Instance

Coder uses `aws_ec2_instance_state` to start and stop the VM. This example template is fully persistent, meaning the full filesystem is preserved when the workspace restarts. See this [community example](https://github.com/bpmct/coder-templates/tree/main/aws-linux-ephemeral) of an ephemeral AWS instance.

> **Note**
> This template is designed to be a starting point! Edit the Terraform to extend the template to support your use case.

## code-server

`code-server` is installed via the `startup_script` argument in the `coder_agent`
resource block. The `coder_app` resource is defined to access `code-server` through
the dashboard UI over `localhost:13337`.
