docs/install/offline.md, before:

# Offline Deployments

All Coder features are supported in offline / behind firewalls / in air-gapped
environments. However, some changes to your configuration are necessary.

> This is a general comparison. Keep reading for a full tutorial running Coder
> offline with Kubernetes or Docker.

|                    | Public deployments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Offline deployments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Terraform binary   | By default, Coder downloads Terraform binary from [releases.hashicorp.com](https://releases.hashicorp.com)                                                                                                                                                         | Terraform binary must be included in `PATH` for the VM or container image. [Supported versions](https://github.com/coder/coder/blob/main/provisioner/terraform/install.go#L23-L24)                                                                                          |
| Terraform registry | Coder templates will attempt to download providers from [registry.terraform.io](https://registry.terraform.io) or [custom source addresses](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/providers/requirements#source-addresses) specified in each template | [Custom source addresses](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/providers/requirements#source-addresses) can be specified in each Coder template, or a custom registry/mirror can be used. More details below                                                  |
| STUN               | By default, Coder uses Google's public STUN server for direct workspace connections                                                                                                                                                                                | STUN can be safely [disabled](../cli/server.md#--derp-server-stun-addresses), users can still connect via [relayed connections](../networking/index.md#-geo-distribution). Alternatively, you can set a [custom DERP server](../cli/server.md#--derp-server-stun-addresses) |
| DERP               | By default, Coder's built-in DERP relay can be used, or [Tailscale's public relays](../networking/index.md#relayed-connections).                                                                                                                                   | By default, Coder's built-in DERP relay can be used, or [custom relays](../networking/index.md#custom-relays).                                                                                                                                                              |
| PostgreSQL         | If no [PostgreSQL connection URL](../cli/server.md#--postgres-url) is specified, Coder will download Postgres from [repo1.maven.org](https://repo1.maven.org)                                                                                                      | An external database is required, you must specify a [PostgreSQL connection URL](../cli/server.md#--postgres-url)                                                                                                                                                           |
| Telemetry          | Telemetry is on by default, and [can be disabled](../cli/server.md#--telemetry)                                                                                                                                                                                    | Telemetry [can be disabled](../cli/server.md#--telemetry)                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Update check       | By default, Coder checks for updates from [GitHub releases](https:/github.com/coder/coder/releases)                                                                                                                                                                | Update checks [can be disabled](../cli/server.md#--update-check)                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

## Offline container images

The following instructions walk you through how to build a custom Coder server
image for Docker or Kubernetes

First, build and push a container image extending our official image with the
following:

- CLI config (.tfrc) for Terraform referring to
  [external mirror](https://www.terraform.io/cli/config/config-file#explicit-installation-method-configuration)
- [Terraform Providers](https://registry.terraform.io) for templates
  - These could also be specified via a volume mount (Docker) or
    [network mirror](https://www.terraform.io/internals/provider-network-mirror-protocol).
    See below for details.

> Note: Coder includes the latest
> [supported version](https://github.com/coder/coder/blob/main/provisioner/terraform/install.go#L23-L24)
> of Terraform in the official Docker images. If you need to bundle a different
> version of terraform, you can do so by customizing the image.

Here's an example Dockerfile:

```Dockerfile
FROM ghcr.io/coder/coder:latest

USER root

RUN apk add curl unzip

# Create directory for the Terraform CLI (and assets)
RUN mkdir -p /opt/terraform

# Terraform is already included in the official Coder image.
# See https://github.com/coder/coder/blob/main/scripts/Dockerfile.base#L15
# If you need to install a different version of Terraform, you can do so here.
# The below step is optional if you wish to keep the existing version.
# See https://github.com/coder/coder/blob/main/provisioner/terraform/install.go#L23-L24
# for supported Terraform versions.
ARG TERRAFORM_VERSION=1.3.9
RUN apk update && \
    apk del terraform && \
    curl -LOs https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform/${TERRAFORM_VERSION}/terraform_${TERRAFORM_VERSION}_linux_amd64.zip \
    && unzip -o terraform_${TERRAFORM_VERSION}_linux_amd64.zip \
    && mv terraform /opt/terraform \
    && rm terraform_${TERRAFORM_VERSION}_linux_amd64.zip
ENV PATH=/opt/terraform:${PATH}

# Additionally, a Terraform mirror needs to be configured
# to download the Terraform providers used in Coder templates.
# There are two options:

# Option 1) Use a filesystem mirror. We can seed this at build-time
#    or by mounting a volume to /opt/terraform/plugins in the container.
#    https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#filesystem_mirror
#    Be sure to add all the providers you use in your templates to /opt/terraform/plugins

RUN mkdir -p /opt/terraform/plugins
ADD filesystem-mirror-example.tfrc /opt/terraform/config.tfrc

# Optionally, we can "seed" the filesystem mirror with common providers.
# Comment out lines 40-49 if you plan on only using a volume or network mirror:
RUN mkdir -p /opt/terraform/plugins/registry.terraform.io
WORKDIR /opt/terraform/plugins/registry.terraform.io
ARG CODER_PROVIDER_VERSION=0.6.10
RUN echo "Adding coder/coder v${CODER_PROVIDER_VERSION}" \
    && mkdir -p coder/coder && cd coder/coder \
    && curl -LOs https://github.com/coder/terraform-provider-coder/releases/download/v${CODER_PROVIDER_VERSION}/terraform-provider-coder_${CODER_PROVIDER_VERSION}_linux_amd64.zip
ARG DOCKER_PROVIDER_VERSION=3.0.1
RUN echo "Adding kreuzwerker/docker v${DOCKER_PROVIDER_VERSION}" \
    && mkdir -p kreuzwerker/docker && cd kreuzwerker/docker \
    && curl -LOs https://github.com/kreuzwerker/terraform-provider-docker/releases/download/v${DOCKER_PROVIDER_VERSION}/terraform-provider-docker_${DOCKER_PROVIDER_VERSION}_linux_amd64.zip
ARG KUBERNETES_PROVIDER_VERSION=2.18.1
RUN echo "Adding kubernetes/kubernetes v${KUBERNETES_PROVIDER_VERSION}" \
    && mkdir -p kubernetes/kubernetes && cd kubernetes/kubernetes \
    && curl -LOs https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform-provider-kubernetes/${KUBERNETES_PROVIDER_VERSION}/terraform-provider-kubernetes_${KUBERNETES_PROVIDER_VERSION}_linux_amd64.zip
ARG AWS_PROVIDER_VERSION=4.59.0
RUN echo "Adding aws/aws v${AWS_PROVIDER_VERSION}" \
    && mkdir -p aws/aws && cd aws/aws \
    && curl -LOs https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform-provider-aws/${AWS_PROVIDER_VERSION}/terraform-provider-aws_${AWS_PROVIDER_VERSION}_linux_amd64.zip

RUN chown -R coder:coder /opt/terraform/plugins
WORKDIR /home/coder

# Option 2) Use a network mirror.
#    https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#network_mirror
#    Be sure uncomment line 60 and edit network-mirror-example.tfrc to
#    specify the HTTPS base URL of your mirror.

# ADD network-mirror-example.tfrc /opt/terraform/config.tfrc

USER coder

# Use the tfrc file to inform
ENV TF_CLI_CONFIG_FILE=/opt/terraform/config.tfrc
```

> If you are bundling Terraform providers into your Coder image, be sure the
> provider version matches any templates or
> [example templates](https://github.com/coder/coder/tree/main/examples/templates)
> you intend to use.

```hcl
# filesystem-mirror-example.tfrc
provider_installation {
  filesystem_mirror {
    path = "/opt/terraform/plugins"
  }
}
```

```hcl
# network-mirror-example.tfrc
provider_installation {
  network_mirror {
    url = "https://terraform.example.com/providers/"
  }
}
```

## Run offline via Docker

Follow our [docker-compose](./docker.md#run-coder-with-docker-compose)
documentation and modify the docker-compose file to specify your custom Coder
image. Additionally, you can add a volume mount to add providers to the
filesystem mirror without re-building the image.

First, make a create an empty plugins directory:

```console
mkdir $HOME/plugins
```

Next, add a volume mount to docker-compose.yaml:

```console
vim docker-compose.yaml
```

```yaml
# docker-compose.yaml
version: "3.9"
services:
  coder:
    image: registry.example.com/coder:latest
    volumes:
      - ./plugins:/opt/terraform/plugins
    # ...
  environment:
    CODER_TELEMETRY_ENABLE: "false" # Disable telemetry
    CODER_DERP_SERVER_STUN_ADDRESSES: "" # Only use relayed connections
    CODER_UPDATE_CHECK: "false" # Disable automatic update checks
  database:
    image: registry.example.com/postgres:13
    # ...
```

> The
> [terraform providers mirror](https://www.terraform.io/cli/commands/providers/mirror)
> command can be used to download the required plugins for a Coder template.
> This can be uploaded into the `plugins` directory on your offline server.

## Run offline via Kubernetes

We publish the Helm chart for download on
[GitHub Releases](https://github.com/coder/coder/releases/latest). Follow our
[Kubernetes](./kubernetes.md) documentation and modify the Helm values to
specify your custom Coder image.

```yaml
# values.yaml
coder:
  image:
    repo: "registry.example.com/coder"
    tag: "latest"
  env:
    # Disable telemetry
    - name: "CODER_TELEMETRY_ENABLE"
      value: "false"
    # Disable automatic update checks
    - name: "CODER_UPDATE_CHECK"
      value: "false"
    # Only use relayed connections
    - name: "CODER_DERP_SERVER_STUN_ADDRESSES"
      value: ""
    # You must set up an external PostgreSQL database
    - name: "CODER_PG_CONNECTION_URL"
      value: ""
# ...
```

## Offline docs

Coder also provides offline documentation in case you want to host it on your
own server. The docs are exported as static files that you can host on any web
server, as demonstrated in the example below:

1. Go to the release page. In this case, we want to use the
   [latest version](https://github.com/coder/coder/releases/latest).
2. Download the documentation files from the "Assets" section. It is named as
   `coder_docs_<version>.tgz`.
3. Extract the file and move its contents to your server folder.
4. If you are using NodeJS, you can execute the following command:
   `cd docs && npx http-server .`
5. Set the [CODER_DOCS_URL](../cli/server.md#--docs-url) environment variable to
   use the URL of your hosted docs. This way, the Coder UI will reference the
   documentation from your specified URL.

With these steps, you'll have the Coder documentation hosted on your server and
accessible for your team to use.

## Firewall exceptions

In restricted internet networks, Coder may require connection to internet.
Ensure that the following web addresses are accessible from the machine where
Coder is installed.

- code-server.dev (install via AUR)
- open-vsx.org (optional if someone would use code-server)
- registry.terraform.io (to create and push template)
- v2-licensor.coder.com (developing Coder in Coder)

Commit message:

docs: update offline tf provider config (#10062)

docs/install/offline.md, after:

# Offline Deployments

All Coder features are supported in offline / behind firewalls / in air-gapped
environments. However, some changes to your configuration are necessary.

> This is a general comparison. Keep reading for a full tutorial running Coder
> offline with Kubernetes or Docker.

|                    | Public deployments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Offline deployments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Terraform binary   | By default, Coder downloads Terraform binary from [releases.hashicorp.com](https://releases.hashicorp.com)                                                                                                                                                         | Terraform binary must be included in `PATH` for the VM or container image. [Supported versions](https://github.com/coder/coder/blob/main/provisioner/terraform/install.go#L23-L24)                                                                                          |
| Terraform registry | Coder templates will attempt to download providers from [registry.terraform.io](https://registry.terraform.io) or [custom source addresses](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/providers/requirements#source-addresses) specified in each template | [Custom source addresses](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/providers/requirements#source-addresses) can be specified in each Coder template, or a custom registry/mirror can be used. More details below                                                  |
| STUN               | By default, Coder uses Google's public STUN server for direct workspace connections                                                                                                                                                                                | STUN can be safely [disabled](../cli/server.md#--derp-server-stun-addresses), users can still connect via [relayed connections](../networking/index.md#-geo-distribution). Alternatively, you can set a [custom DERP server](../cli/server.md#--derp-server-stun-addresses) |
| DERP               | By default, Coder's built-in DERP relay can be used, or [Tailscale's public relays](../networking/index.md#relayed-connections).                                                                                                                                   | By default, Coder's built-in DERP relay can be used, or [custom relays](../networking/index.md#custom-relays).                                                                                                                                                              |
| PostgreSQL         | If no [PostgreSQL connection URL](../cli/server.md#--postgres-url) is specified, Coder will download Postgres from [repo1.maven.org](https://repo1.maven.org)                                                                                                      | An external database is required, you must specify a [PostgreSQL connection URL](../cli/server.md#--postgres-url)                                                                                                                                                           |
| Telemetry          | Telemetry is on by default, and [can be disabled](../cli/server.md#--telemetry)                                                                                                                                                                                    | Telemetry [can be disabled](../cli/server.md#--telemetry)                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Update check       | By default, Coder checks for updates from [GitHub releases](https:/github.com/coder/coder/releases)                                                                                                                                                                | Update checks [can be disabled](../cli/server.md#--update-check)                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

## Offline container images

The following instructions walk you through how to build a custom Coder server
image for Docker or Kubernetes

First, build and push a container image extending our official image with the
following:

- CLI config (.tfrc) for Terraform referring to
  [external mirror](https://www.terraform.io/cli/config/config-file#explicit-installation-method-configuration)
- [Terraform Providers](https://registry.terraform.io) for templates
  - These could also be specified via a volume mount (Docker) or
    [network mirror](https://www.terraform.io/internals/provider-network-mirror-protocol).
    See below for details.

> Note: Coder includes the latest
> [supported version](https://github.com/coder/coder/blob/main/provisioner/terraform/install.go#L23-L24)
> of Terraform in the official Docker images. If you need to bundle a different
> version of terraform, you can do so by customizing the image.

Here's an example Dockerfile:

```Dockerfile
FROM ghcr.io/coder/coder:latest

USER root

RUN apk add curl unzip

# Create directory for the Terraform CLI (and assets)
RUN mkdir -p /opt/terraform

# Terraform is already included in the official Coder image.
# See https://github.com/coder/coder/blob/main/scripts/Dockerfile.base#L15
# If you need to install a different version of Terraform, you can do so here.
# The below step is optional if you wish to keep the existing version.
# See https://github.com/coder/coder/blob/main/provisioner/terraform/install.go#L23-L24
# for supported Terraform versions.
ARG TERRAFORM_VERSION=1.5.6
RUN apk update && \
    apk del terraform && \
    curl -LOs https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform/${TERRAFORM_VERSION}/terraform_${TERRAFORM_VERSION}_linux_amd64.zip \
    && unzip -o terraform_${TERRAFORM_VERSION}_linux_amd64.zip \
    && mv terraform /opt/terraform \
    && rm terraform_${TERRAFORM_VERSION}_linux_amd64.zip
ENV PATH=/opt/terraform:${PATH}

# Additionally, a Terraform mirror needs to be configured
# to download the Terraform providers used in Coder templates.
# There are two options:

# Option 1) Use a filesystem mirror.
#  We can seed this at build-time or by mounting a volume to
#  /opt/terraform/plugins in the container.
#  https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#filesystem_mirror
#  Be sure to add all the providers you use in your templates to /opt/terraform/plugins

RUN mkdir -p /home/coder/.terraform.d/plugins/registry.terraform.io
ADD filesystem-mirror-example.tfrc /home/coder/.terraformrc

# Optionally, we can "seed" the filesystem mirror with common providers.
# Comment out lines 40-49 if you plan on only using a volume or network mirror:
WORKDIR /home/coder/.terraform.d/plugins/registry.terraform.io
ARG CODER_PROVIDER_VERSION=0.12.1
RUN echo "Adding coder/coder v${CODER_PROVIDER_VERSION}" \
    && mkdir -p coder/coder && cd coder/coder \
    && curl -LOs https://github.com/coder/terraform-provider-coder/releases/download/v${CODER_PROVIDER_VERSION}/terraform-provider-coder_${CODER_PROVIDER_VERSION}_linux_amd64.zip
ARG DOCKER_PROVIDER_VERSION=3.0.2
RUN echo "Adding kreuzwerker/docker v${DOCKER_PROVIDER_VERSION}" \
    && mkdir -p kreuzwerker/docker && cd kreuzwerker/docker \
    && curl -LOs https://github.com/kreuzwerker/terraform-provider-docker/releases/download/v${DOCKER_PROVIDER_VERSION}/terraform-provider-docker_${DOCKER_PROVIDER_VERSION}_linux_amd64.zip
ARG KUBERNETES_PROVIDER_VERSION=2.23.0
RUN echo "Adding kubernetes/kubernetes v${KUBERNETES_PROVIDER_VERSION}" \
    && mkdir -p hashicorp/kubernetes && cd hashicorp/kubernetes \
    && curl -LOs https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform-provider-kubernetes/${KUBERNETES_PROVIDER_VERSION}/terraform-provider-kubernetes_${KUBERNETES_PROVIDER_VERSION}_linux_amd64.zip
ARG AWS_PROVIDER_VERSION=5.19.0
RUN echo "Adding aws/aws v${AWS_PROVIDER_VERSION}" \
    && mkdir -p aws/aws && cd aws/aws \
    && curl -LOs https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform-provider-aws/${AWS_PROVIDER_VERSION}/terraform-provider-aws_${AWS_PROVIDER_VERSION}_linux_amd64.zip

RUN chown -R coder:coder /home/coder/.terraform*
WORKDIR /home/coder

# Option 2) Use a network mirror.
#  https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#network_mirror
#  Be sure uncomment line 60 and edit network-mirror-example.tfrc to
#  specify the HTTPS base URL of your mirror.

# ADD network-mirror-example.tfrc /home/coder/.terraformrc

USER coder

# Use the .terraformrc file to inform Terraform of the locally installed providers.
ENV TF_CLI_CONFIG_FILE=/home/coder/.terraformrc
```

> If you are bundling Terraform providers into your Coder image, be sure the
> provider version matches any templates or
> [example templates](https://github.com/coder/coder/tree/main/examples/templates)
> you intend to use.

```hcl
# filesystem-mirror-example.tfrc
provider_installation {
  filesystem_mirror {
    path = "/home/coder/.terraform.d/plugins"
  }
}
```

```hcl
# network-mirror-example.tfrc
provider_installation {
  network_mirror {
    url = "https://terraform.example.com/providers/"
  }
}
```

## Run offline via Docker

Follow our [docker-compose](./docker.md#run-coder-with-docker-compose)
documentation and modify the docker-compose file to specify your custom Coder
image. Additionally, you can add a volume mount to add providers to the
filesystem mirror without re-building the image.

First, make a create an empty plugins directory:

```console
mkdir $HOME/plugins
```

Next, add a volume mount to docker-compose.yaml:

```console
vim docker-compose.yaml
```

```yaml
# docker-compose.yaml
version: "3.9"
services:
  coder:
    image: registry.example.com/coder:latest
    volumes:
      - ./plugins:/opt/terraform/plugins
    # ...
  environment:
    CODER_TELEMETRY_ENABLE: "false" # Disable telemetry
    CODER_DERP_SERVER_STUN_ADDRESSES: "" # Only use relayed connections
    CODER_UPDATE_CHECK: "false" # Disable automatic update checks
  database:
    image: registry.example.com/postgres:13
    # ...
```

> The
> [terraform providers mirror](https://www.terraform.io/cli/commands/providers/mirror)
> command can be used to download the required plugins for a Coder template.
> This can be uploaded into the `plugins` directory on your offline server.

## Run offline via Kubernetes

We publish the Helm chart for download on
[GitHub Releases](https://github.com/coder/coder/releases/latest). Follow our
[Kubernetes](./kubernetes.md) documentation and modify the Helm values to
specify your custom Coder image.

```yaml
# values.yaml
coder:
  image:
    repo: "registry.example.com/coder"
    tag: "latest"
  env:
    # Disable telemetry
    - name: "CODER_TELEMETRY_ENABLE"
      value: "false"
    # Disable automatic update checks
    - name: "CODER_UPDATE_CHECK"
      value: "false"
    # Only use relayed connections
    - name: "CODER_DERP_SERVER_STUN_ADDRESSES"
      value: ""
    # You must set up an external PostgreSQL database
    - name: "CODER_PG_CONNECTION_URL"
      value: ""
# ...
```

## Offline docs

Coder also provides offline documentation in case you want to host it on your
own server. The docs are exported as static files that you can host on any web
server, as demonstrated in the example below:

1. Go to the release page. In this case, we want to use the
   [latest version](https://github.com/coder/coder/releases/latest).
2. Download the documentation files from the "Assets" section. It is named as
   `coder_docs_<version>.tgz`.
3. Extract the file and move its contents to your server folder.
4. If you are using NodeJS, you can execute the following command:
   `cd docs && npx http-server .`
5. Set the [CODER_DOCS_URL](../cli/server.md#--docs-url) environment variable to
   use the URL of your hosted docs. This way, the Coder UI will reference the
   documentation from your specified URL.

With these steps, you'll have the Coder documentation hosted on your server and
accessible for your team to use.

## Firewall exceptions

In restricted internet networks, Coder may require connection to internet.
Ensure that the following web addresses are accessible from the machine where
Coder is installed.

- code-server.dev (install via AUR)
- open-vsx.org (optional if someone would use code-server)
- registry.terraform.io (to create and push template)
- v2-licensor.coder.com (developing Coder in Coder)
