docs/templates/devcontainers.md, before:

# Devcontainers (alpha)

[Devcontainers](https://containers.dev) are an open source specification for
defining development environments.

[envbuilder](https://github.com/coder/envbuilder) is an open source project by
Coder that runs devcontainers via Coder templates and your underlying
infrastructure. It can run on Docker or Kubernetes.

There are several benefits to adding a devcontainer-compatible template to
Coder:

- Drop-in migration from Codespaces (or any existing repositories that use
  devcontainers)
- Easier to start projects from Coder. Just create a new workspace then pick a
  starter devcontainer.
- Developer teams can "bring their own image." No need for platform teams to
  manage complex images, registries, and CI pipelines.

## How it works

A Coder admin adds a devcontainer-compatible template to Coder (envbuilder).
Then developers enter their repository URL as a [parameter](./parameters.md)
when they create their workspace.
[envbuilder](https://github.com/coder/envbuilder) clones the repo and builds a
container from the `devcontainer.json` specified in the repo.

Developers can edit the `devcontainer.json` in their workspace to rebuild to
iterate on their development environments.

## Example templates

- [Docker](https://github.com/coder/coder/tree/main/examples/templates/devcontainer-docker)
- [Kubernetes](https://github.com/coder/coder/tree/main/examples/templates/devcontainer-kubernetes)

![Devcontainer parameter screen](../images/templates/devcontainers.png)

Your template can prompt the user for a repo URL with
[Parameters](./parameters.md).

## Authentication

You may need to authenticate to your container registry, such as Artifactory, or
git provider such as GitLab, to use envbuilder. See the
[envbuilder documentation](https://github.com/coder/envbuilder/) for more
information.

## Caching

To improve build times, devcontainers can be cached. Refer to the
[envbuilder documentation](https://github.com/coder/envbuilder/) for more
information.

## Other features & known issues

Envbuilder is still under active development. Refer to the
[envbuilder GitHub repo](https://github.com/coder/envbuilder/) for more
information and to submit feature requests.

Commit message:

docs: describe devcontainers as deployment model (#12877)

docs/templates/devcontainers.md, after:

# Dev Containers (alpha)

[Development containers](https://containers.dev) are an open source
specification for defining development environments.

[envbuilder](https://github.com/coder/envbuilder) is an open source project by
Coder that runs dev containers via Coder templates and your underlying
infrastructure. It can run on Docker or Kubernetes.

There are several benefits to adding a devcontainer-compatible template to
Coder:

- Drop-in migration from Codespaces (or any existing repositories that use dev
  containers)
- Easier to start projects from Coder. Just create a new workspace then pick a
  starter devcontainer.
- Developer teams can "bring their own image." No need for platform teams to
  manage complex images, registries, and CI pipelines.

## How it works

A Coder admin adds a devcontainer-compatible template to Coder (envbuilder).
Then developers enter their repository URL as a [parameter](./parameters.md)
when they create their workspace.
[envbuilder](https://github.com/coder/envbuilder) clones the repo and builds a
container from the `devcontainer.json` specified in the repo.

Developers can edit the `devcontainer.json` in their workspace to rebuild to
iterate on their development environments.

## Example templates

- [Docker](https://github.com/coder/coder/tree/main/examples/templates/devcontainer-docker)
- [Kubernetes](https://github.com/coder/coder/tree/main/examples/templates/devcontainer-kubernetes)

![Devcontainer parameter screen](../images/templates/devcontainers.png)

Your template can prompt the user for a repo URL with
[Parameters](./parameters.md).

## Authentication

You may need to authenticate to your container registry, such as Artifactory, or
git provider such as GitLab, to use envbuilder. See the
[envbuilder documentation](https://github.com/coder/envbuilder/) for more
information.

## Caching

To improve build times, dev containers can be cached. Refer to the
[envbuilder documentation](https://github.com/coder/envbuilder/) for more
information.

## Other features & known issues

Envbuilder is still under active development. Refer to the
[envbuilder GitHub repo](https://github.com/coder/envbuilder/) for more
information and to submit feature requests.
