docs/templates/open-in-coder.md, before:

# Open in Coder

An "Open in Coder" button can be embedded into your git repos or internal wikis
to allow developers to quickly launch a new workspace.

<video autoplay playsinline loop>
  <source src="https://github.com/coder/coder/blob/main/docs/images/templates/open-in-coder.mp4?raw=true" type="video/mp4">
Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

## How it works

To support any infrastructure and software stack, Coder provides a generic
approach for "Open in Coder" flows.

1. Set up
   [Git Authentication](../admin/git-providers.md#require-git-authentication-in-templates)
   in your Coder deployment

1. Modify your template to auto-clone repos:

> The id in the template's `coder_git_auth` data source must match the
> `CODER_GITAUTH_0_ID` in the Coder deployment configuration.

- If you want the template to clone a specific git repo

  ```hcl
  # Require git authentication to use this template
  data "coder_git_auth" "github" {
      id = "primary-github"
  }

  resource "coder_agent" "dev" {
      # ...
      dir = "~/coder"
      startup_script =<<EOF

      # Clone repo from GitHub
      if [ ! -d "coder" ]
      then
          git clone https://github.com/coder/coder
      fi

      EOF
  }
  ```

  > Note: The `dir` attribute can be set in multiple ways, for example:
  >
  > - `~/coder`
  > - `/home/coder/coder`
  > - `coder` (relative to the home directory)

- If you want the template to support any repository via
  [parameters](./parameters.md)

  ```hcl
  # Require git authentication to use this template
  data "coder_git_auth" "github" {
      id = "primary-github"
  }

  # Prompt the user for the git repo URL
  data "coder_parameter" "git_repo" {
      name          = "git_repo"
      display_name  = "Git repository"
      default       = "https://github.com/coder/coder"
  }

  locals {
      folder_name = try(element(split("/", data.coder_parameter.git_repo.value), length(split("/", data.coder_parameter.git_repo.value)) - 1), "")
  }

  resource "coder_agent" "dev" {
      # ...
      dir = "~/${local.folder_name}"
      startup_script =<<EOF

      # Clone repo from GitHub
      if [ ! -d "${local.folder_name}" ]
      then
          git clone ${data.coder_parameter.git_repo.value}
      fi

      EOF
  }
  ```

1. Embed the "Open in Coder" button with Markdown

   ```md
   [![Open in Coder](https://YOUR_ACCESS_URL/open-in-coder.svg)](https://YOUR_ACCESS_URL/templates/YOUR_TEMPLATE/workspace)
   ```

   > Be sure to replace `YOUR_ACCESS_URL` with your Coder access url (e.g.
   > https://coder.example.com) and `YOUR_TEMPLATE` with the name of your
   > template.

1. Optional: pre-fill parameter values in the "Create Workspace" page

   This can be used to pre-fill the git repo URL, disk size, image, etc.

   ```md
   [![Open in Coder](https://YOUR_ACCESS_URL/open-in-coder.svg)](https://YOUR_ACCESS_URL/templates/YOUR_TEMPLATE/workspace?param.git_repo=https://github.com/coder/slog&param.home_disk_size%20%28GB%29=20)
   ```

   ![Pre-filled parameters](../images/templates/pre-filled-parameters.png)

## Example: Kubernetes

For a full example of the Open in Coder flow in Kubernetes, check out
[this example template](https://github.com/bpmct/coder-templates/tree/main/kubernetes-open-in-coder).

## Devcontainer support

Devcontainer support is on the roadmap.
[Follow along here](https://github.com/coder/coder/issues/5559)

Commit message:

feat(site): disable rich parameters when using open in coder (#10114)
* feat(site): disable rich parameters when using open in coder

* updated docs

* chore(site): increase refetch interval for deployment health

* Revert "chore(site): increase refetch interval for deployment health"

This reverts commit 8e642be3fbb64bce9dda621ea48231bca509b297.

docs/templates/open-in-coder.md, after:

# Open in Coder

An "Open in Coder" button can be embedded into your git repos or internal wikis
to allow developers to quickly launch a new workspace.

<video autoplay playsinline loop>
  <source src="https://github.com/coder/coder/blob/main/docs/images/templates/open-in-coder.mp4?raw=true" type="video/mp4">
Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

## How it works

To support any infrastructure and software stack, Coder provides a generic
approach for "Open in Coder" flows.

1. Set up
   [Git Authentication](../admin/git-providers.md#require-git-authentication-in-templates)
   in your Coder deployment

1. Modify your template to auto-clone repos:

> The id in the template's `coder_git_auth` data source must match the
> `CODER_GITAUTH_0_ID` in the Coder deployment configuration.

- If you want the template to clone a specific git repo

  ```hcl
  # Require git authentication to use this template
  data "coder_git_auth" "github" {
      id = "primary-github"
  }

  resource "coder_agent" "dev" {
      # ...
      dir = "~/coder"
      startup_script =<<EOF

      # Clone repo from GitHub
      if [ ! -d "coder" ]
      then
          git clone https://github.com/coder/coder
      fi

      EOF
  }
  ```

  > Note: The `dir` attribute can be set in multiple ways, for example:
  >
  > - `~/coder`
  > - `/home/coder/coder`
  > - `coder` (relative to the home directory)

- If you want the template to support any repository via
  [parameters](./parameters.md)

  ```hcl
  # Require git authentication to use this template
  data "coder_git_auth" "github" {
      id = "primary-github"
  }

  # Prompt the user for the git repo URL
  data "coder_parameter" "git_repo" {
      name          = "git_repo"
      display_name  = "Git repository"
      default       = "https://github.com/coder/coder"
  }

  locals {
      folder_name = try(element(split("/", data.coder_parameter.git_repo.value), length(split("/", data.coder_parameter.git_repo.value)) - 1), "")
  }

  resource "coder_agent" "dev" {
      # ...
      dir = "~/${local.folder_name}"
      startup_script =<<EOF

      # Clone repo from GitHub
      if [ ! -d "${local.folder_name}" ]
      then
          git clone ${data.coder_parameter.git_repo.value}
      fi

      EOF
  }
  ```

1. Embed the "Open in Coder" button with Markdown

   ```md
   [![Open in Coder](https://YOUR_ACCESS_URL/open-in-coder.svg)](https://YOUR_ACCESS_URL/templates/YOUR_TEMPLATE/workspace)
   ```

   > Be sure to replace `YOUR_ACCESS_URL` with your Coder access url (e.g.
   > https://coder.example.com) and `YOUR_TEMPLATE` with the name of your
   > template.

1. Optional: pre-fill parameter values in the "Create Workspace" page

   This can be used to pre-fill the git repo URL, disk size, image, etc.

   ```md
   [![Open in Coder](https://YOUR_ACCESS_URL/open-in-coder.svg)](https://YOUR_ACCESS_URL/templates/YOUR_TEMPLATE/workspace?param.git_repo=https://github.com/coder/slog&param.home_disk_size%20%28GB%29=20)
   ```

   ![Pre-filled parameters](../images/templates/pre-filled-parameters.png)

1. Optional: disable specific parameter fields by including their names as
   specified in your template in the `disable_params` search params list

   ```md
   [![Open in Coder](https://YOUR_ACCESS_URL/open-in-coder.svg)](https://YOUR_ACCESS_URL/templates/YOUR_TEMPLATE/workspace?disable_params=first_parameter,second_parameter)
   ```

## Example: Kubernetes

For a full example of the Open in Coder flow in Kubernetes, check out
[this example template](https://github.com/bpmct/coder-templates/tree/main/kubernetes-open-in-coder).

## Devcontainer support

Devcontainer support is on the roadmap.
[Follow along here](https://github.com/coder/coder/issues/5559)
