docs/templates/parameters.md, before:

# Parameters

A template can prompt the user for additional information when creating
workspaces with
[_parameters_](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/coder/coder/latest/docs/data-sources/parameter).

![Parameters in Create Workspace screen](../images/parameters.png)

The user can set parameters in the dashboard UI and CLI.

You'll likely want to hardcode certain template properties for workspaces, such
as security group. But you can let developers specify other properties with
parameters like instance size, geographical location, repository URL, etc.

This example lets a developer choose a Docker host for the workspace:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "docker_host" {
  name        = "Region"
  description = "Which region would you like to deploy to?"
  icon        = "/emojis/1f30f.png"
  type        = "string"
  default     = "tcp://100.94.74.63:2375"

  option {
    name = "Pittsburgh, USA"
    value = "tcp://100.94.74.63:2375"
    icon = "/emojis/1f1fa-1f1f8.png"
  }

  option {
    name = "Helsinki, Finland"
    value = "tcp://100.117.102.81:2375"
    icon = "/emojis/1f1eb-1f1ee.png"
  }

  option {
    name = "Sydney, Australia"
    value = "tcp://100.127.2.1:2375"
    icon = "/emojis/1f1e6-1f1f9.png"
  }
}
```

From there, a template can refer to a parameter's value:

```hcl
provider "docker" {
  host = data.coder_parameter.docker_host.value
}
```

## Types

A Coder parameter can have one of these types:

- `string`
- `bool`
- `number`.
- `list(string)`

To specify a default value for a parameter with the `list(string)` type, use a
JSON array and the Terraform
[jsonencode](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/jsonencode)
function. For example:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "security_groups" {
  name        = "Security groups"
  icon        = "/icon/aws.png"
  type        = "list(string)"
  description = "Select appropriate security groups."
  mutable     = true
  default = jsonencode([
    "Web Server Security Group",
    "Database Security Group",
    "Backend Security Group"
  ])
}
```

## Options

A `string` parameter can provide a set of options to limit the user's choices:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "docker_host" {
  name        = "Region"
  description = "Which region would you like to deploy to?"
  type        = "string"
  default     = "tcp://100.94.74.63:2375"

  option {
    name = "Pittsburgh, USA"
    value = "tcp://100.94.74.63:2375"
    icon = "/emojis/1f1fa-1f1f8.png"
  }

  option {
    name = "Helsinki, Finland"
    value = "tcp://100.117.102.81:2375"
    icon = "/emojis/1f1eb-1f1ee.png"
  }

  option {
    name = "Sydney, Australia"
    value = "tcp://100.127.2.1:2375"
    icon = "/emojis/1f1e6-1f1f9.png"
  }
}
```

### Incompatibility in Parameter Options for Workspace Builds

When creating Coder templates, authors have the flexibility to modify parameter
options associated with rich parameters. Such modifications can involve adding,
substituting, or removing a parameter option. It's important to note that making
these changes can lead to discrepancies in parameter values utilized by ongoing
workspace builds.

Consequently, workspace users will be prompted to select the new value from a
pop-up window or by using the command-line interface. While this additional
interactive step might seem like an interruption, it serves a crucial purpose.
It prevents workspace users from becoming trapped with outdated template
versions, ensuring they can smoothly update their workspace without any
hindrances.

Example:

- Bob creates a workspace using the `python-dev` template. This template has a
  parameter `image_tag`, and Bob selects `1.12`.
- Later, the template author Alice is notified of a critical vulnerability in a
  package installed in the `python-dev` template, which affects the image tag
  `1.12`.
- Alice remediates this vulnerability, and pushes an updated template version
  that replaces option `1.12` with `1.13` for the `image_tag` parameter. She
  then notifies all users of that template to update their workspace
  immediately.
- Bob saves their work, and selects the `Update` option in the UI. As their
  workspace uses the now-invalid option `1.12`, for the `image_tag` parameter,
  they are prompted to select a new value for `image_tag`.

## Required and optional parameters

A parameter is _required_ if it doesn't have the `default` property. The user
**must** provide a value to this parameter before creating a workspace:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "account_name" {
  name        = "Account name"
  description = "Cloud account name"
  mutable     = true
}
```

If a parameter contains the `default` property, Coder will use this value if the
user does not specify any:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "base_image" {
  name        = "Base image"
  description = "Base machine image to download"
  default     = "ubuntu:latest"
}
```

Admins can also set the `default` property to an empty value so that the
parameter field can remain empty:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "dotfiles_url" {
  name        = "dotfiles URL"
  description = "Git repository with dotfiles"
  mutable     = true
  default     = ""
}
```

## Mutability

Immutable parameters can only be set in these situations:

- Creating a workspace for the first time.
- Updating a workspace to a new template version. This sets the initial value
  for required parameters.

The idea is to prevent users from modifying fragile or persistent workspace
resources like volumes, regions, and so on.

Example:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "region" {
  name        = "Region"
  description = "Region where the workspace is hosted"
  mutable     = false
  default     = "us-east-1"
}
```

You can modify a parameter's `mutable` attribute state anytime. In case of
emergency, you can temporarily allow for changing immutable parameters to fix an
operational issue, but it is not advised to overuse this opportunity.

## Ephemeral parameters

Ephemeral parameters are introduced to users in the form of "build options." Use
ephemeral parameters to model specific behaviors in a Coder workspace, such as
reverting to a previous image, restoring from a volume snapshot, or building a
project without using cache.

Since these parameters are ephemeral in nature, subsequent builds proceed in the
standard manner:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "force_rebuild" {
  name         = "force_rebuild"
  type         = "bool"
  description  = "Rebuild the Docker image rather than use the cached one."
  mutable      = true
  default      = false
  ephemeral    = true
}
```

## Validating parameters

Coder supports rich parameters with multiple validation modes: min, max,
monotonic numbers, and regular expressions.

### Number

You can limit a `number` parameter to `min` and `max` boundaries.

You can also specify its monotonicity as `increasing` or `decreasing` to verify
the current and new values. Use the `monotonic` aatribute for resources that
can't be shrunk or grown without implications, like disk volume size.

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "instances" {
  name        = "Instances"
  type        = "number"
  description = "Number of compute instances"
  validation {
    min       = 1
    max       = 8
    monotonic = "increasing"
  }
}
```

### String

You can validate a `string` parameter to match a regular expression. The `regex`
property requires a corresponding `error` property.

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "project_id" {
  name        = "Project ID"
  description = "Alpha-numeric project ID"
  validation {
    regex = "^[a-z0-9]+$"
    error = "Unfortunately, this isn't a valid project ID"
  }
}
```

## Terraform template-wide variables

As parameters are intended to be used only for workspace customization purposes,
Terraform variables can be freely managed by the template author to build
templates. Workspace users are not able to modify template variables.

```hcl

variable "CLOUD_API_KEY" {
  type        = string
  description = "API key for the service"
  default     = "1234567890"
  sensitive   = true
}

```

## Create Autofill

When the template doesn't specify default values, Coder may still autofill
parameters.

1. Coder will look for URL query parameters with form `param.<name>=<value>`.
   This feature enables platform teams to create pre-filled template creation
   links.
2. Coder will populate recently used parameter key-value pairs for the user.
   This feature helps reduce repetition when filling common parameters such as
   `dotfiles_url` or `region`.

Commit message:

feat: support custom validation errors for number-typed parameters (#12224)

docs/templates/parameters.md, after:

# Parameters

A template can prompt the user for additional information when creating
workspaces with
[_parameters_](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/coder/coder/latest/docs/data-sources/parameter).

![Parameters in Create Workspace screen](../images/parameters.png)

The user can set parameters in the dashboard UI and CLI.

You'll likely want to hardcode certain template properties for workspaces, such
as security group. But you can let developers specify other properties with
parameters like instance size, geographical location, repository URL, etc.

This example lets a developer choose a Docker host for the workspace:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "docker_host" {
  name        = "Region"
  description = "Which region would you like to deploy to?"
  icon        = "/emojis/1f30f.png"
  type        = "string"
  default     = "tcp://100.94.74.63:2375"

  option {
    name = "Pittsburgh, USA"
    value = "tcp://100.94.74.63:2375"
    icon = "/emojis/1f1fa-1f1f8.png"
  }

  option {
    name = "Helsinki, Finland"
    value = "tcp://100.117.102.81:2375"
    icon = "/emojis/1f1eb-1f1ee.png"
  }

  option {
    name = "Sydney, Australia"
    value = "tcp://100.127.2.1:2375"
    icon = "/emojis/1f1e6-1f1f9.png"
  }
}
```

From there, a template can refer to a parameter's value:

```hcl
provider "docker" {
  host = data.coder_parameter.docker_host.value
}
```

## Types

A Coder parameter can have one of these types:

- `string`
- `bool`
- `number`.
- `list(string)`

To specify a default value for a parameter with the `list(string)` type, use a
JSON array and the Terraform
[jsonencode](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/jsonencode)
function. For example:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "security_groups" {
  name        = "Security groups"
  icon        = "/icon/aws.png"
  type        = "list(string)"
  description = "Select appropriate security groups."
  mutable     = true
  default = jsonencode([
    "Web Server Security Group",
    "Database Security Group",
    "Backend Security Group"
  ])
}
```

## Options

A `string` parameter can provide a set of options to limit the user's choices:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "docker_host" {
  name        = "Region"
  description = "Which region would you like to deploy to?"
  type        = "string"
  default     = "tcp://100.94.74.63:2375"

  option {
    name = "Pittsburgh, USA"
    value = "tcp://100.94.74.63:2375"
    icon = "/emojis/1f1fa-1f1f8.png"
  }

  option {
    name = "Helsinki, Finland"
    value = "tcp://100.117.102.81:2375"
    icon = "/emojis/1f1eb-1f1ee.png"
  }

  option {
    name = "Sydney, Australia"
    value = "tcp://100.127.2.1:2375"
    icon = "/emojis/1f1e6-1f1f9.png"
  }
}
```

### Incompatibility in Parameter Options for Workspace Builds

When creating Coder templates, authors have the flexibility to modify parameter
options associated with rich parameters. Such modifications can involve adding,
substituting, or removing a parameter option. It's important to note that making
these changes can lead to discrepancies in parameter values utilized by ongoing
workspace builds.

Consequently, workspace users will be prompted to select the new value from a
pop-up window or by using the command-line interface. While this additional
interactive step might seem like an interruption, it serves a crucial purpose.
It prevents workspace users from becoming trapped with outdated template
versions, ensuring they can smoothly update their workspace without any
hindrances.

Example:

- Bob creates a workspace using the `python-dev` template. This template has a
  parameter `image_tag`, and Bob selects `1.12`.
- Later, the template author Alice is notified of a critical vulnerability in a
  package installed in the `python-dev` template, which affects the image tag
  `1.12`.
- Alice remediates this vulnerability, and pushes an updated template version
  that replaces option `1.12` with `1.13` for the `image_tag` parameter. She
  then notifies all users of that template to update their workspace
  immediately.
- Bob saves their work, and selects the `Update` option in the UI. As their
  workspace uses the now-invalid option `1.12`, for the `image_tag` parameter,
  they are prompted to select a new value for `image_tag`.

## Required and optional parameters

A parameter is _required_ if it doesn't have the `default` property. The user
**must** provide a value to this parameter before creating a workspace:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "account_name" {
  name        = "Account name"
  description = "Cloud account name"
  mutable     = true
}
```

If a parameter contains the `default` property, Coder will use this value if the
user does not specify any:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "base_image" {
  name        = "Base image"
  description = "Base machine image to download"
  default     = "ubuntu:latest"
}
```

Admins can also set the `default` property to an empty value so that the
parameter field can remain empty:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "dotfiles_url" {
  name        = "dotfiles URL"
  description = "Git repository with dotfiles"
  mutable     = true
  default     = ""
}
```

## Mutability

Immutable parameters can only be set in these situations:

- Creating a workspace for the first time.
- Updating a workspace to a new template version. This sets the initial value
  for required parameters.

The idea is to prevent users from modifying fragile or persistent workspace
resources like volumes, regions, and so on.

Example:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "region" {
  name        = "Region"
  description = "Region where the workspace is hosted"
  mutable     = false
  default     = "us-east-1"
}
```

You can modify a parameter's `mutable` attribute state anytime. In case of
emergency, you can temporarily allow for changing immutable parameters to fix an
operational issue, but it is not advised to overuse this opportunity.

## Ephemeral parameters

Ephemeral parameters are introduced to users in the form of "build options." Use
ephemeral parameters to model specific behaviors in a Coder workspace, such as
reverting to a previous image, restoring from a volume snapshot, or building a
project without using cache.

Since these parameters are ephemeral in nature, subsequent builds proceed in the
standard manner:

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "force_rebuild" {
  name         = "force_rebuild"
  type         = "bool"
  description  = "Rebuild the Docker image rather than use the cached one."
  mutable      = true
  default      = false
  ephemeral    = true
}
```

## Validating parameters

Coder supports rich parameters with multiple validation modes: min, max,
monotonic numbers, and regular expressions.

### Number

You can limit a `number` parameter to `min` and `max` boundaries.

You can also specify its monotonicity as `increasing` or `decreasing` to verify
the current and new values. Use the `monotonic` aatribute for resources that
can't be shrunk or grown without implications, like disk volume size.

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "instances" {
  name        = "Instances"
  type        = "number"
  description = "Number of compute instances"
  validation {
    min       = 1
    max       = 8
    monotonic = "increasing"
  }
}
```

It is possible to override the default `error` message for a `number` parameter,
along with its associated `min` and/or `max` properties. The following message
placeholders are available `{min}`, `{max}`, and `{value}`.

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "instances" {
  name        = "Instances"
  type        = "number"
  description = "Number of compute instances"
  validation {
    min       = 1
    max       = 4
    error     = "Sorry, we can't provision too many instances - maximum limit: {max}, wanted: {value}."
  }
}
```

### String

You can validate a `string` parameter to match a regular expression. The `regex`
property requires a corresponding `error` property.

```hcl
data "coder_parameter" "project_id" {
  name        = "Project ID"
  description = "Alpha-numeric project ID"
  validation {
    regex = "^[a-z0-9]+$"
    error = "Unfortunately, this isn't a valid project ID"
  }
}
```

## Terraform template-wide variables

As parameters are intended to be used only for workspace customization purposes,
Terraform variables can be freely managed by the template author to build
templates. Workspace users are not able to modify template variables.

```hcl

variable "CLOUD_API_KEY" {
  type        = string
  description = "API key for the service"
  default     = "1234567890"
  sensitive   = true
}

```

## Create Autofill

When the template doesn't specify default values, Coder may still autofill
parameters.

1. Coder will look for URL query parameters with form `param.<name>=<value>`.
   This feature enables platform teams to create pre-filled template creation
   links.
2. Coder will populate recently used parameter key-value pairs for the user.
   This feature helps reduce repetition when filling common parameters such as
   `dotfiles_url` or `region`.
