docs/templates/schedule.md, before:

# Workspace Scheduling

You can configure a template to control how workspaces are started and stopped.
You can also manage the lifecycle of failed or inactive workspaces.

![Schedule screen](../images/template-scheduling.png)

## Schedule

Template [admins](../admin/users.md) may define these default values:

- **Default autostop**: How long a workspace runs without user activity before
  Coder automatically stops it.
- **Max lifetime**: The maximum duration a workspace stays in a started state
  before Coder forcibly stops it.

## Allow users scheduling

For templates where a uniform autostop duration is not appropriate, admins may
allow users to define their own autostart and autostop schedules. Admins can
restrict the days of the week a workspace should automatically start to help
manage infrastructure costs.

## Failure cleanup

Failure cleanup defines how long a workspace is permitted to remain in the
failed state prior to being automatically stopped. Failure cleanup is an
enterprise-only feature.

## Dormancy threshold

Dormancy Threshold defines how long Coder allows a workspace to remain inactive
before being moved into a dormant state. A workspace's inactivity is determined
by the time elapsed since a user last accessed the workspace. A workspace in the
dormant state is not eligible for autostart and must be manually activated by
the user before being accessible. Coder stops workspaces during their transition
to the dormant state if they are detected to be running. Dormancy Threshold is
an enterprise-only feature.

## Dormancy auto-deletion

Dormancy Auto-Deletion allows a template admin to dictate how long a workspace
is permitted to remain dormant before it is automatically deleted. Dormancy
Auto-Deletion is an enterprise-only feature.

Commit message:

chore(docs): remove max_ttl docs (#13077)
* removed MAX_TTL docs, updated template-level scheduling controls

* fmt

docs/templates/schedule.md, after:

# Workspace Scheduling

You can configure a template to control how workspaces are started and stopped.
You can also manage the lifecycle of failed or inactive workspaces.

![Schedule screen](../images/template-scheduling.png)

## Schedule

Template [admins](../admin/users.md) may define these default values:

- [**Default autostop**](../workspaces.md#autostart-and-autostop): How long a
  workspace runs without user activity before Coder automatically stops it.
- [**Autostop requirement**](../workspaces.md#autostop-requirement-enterprise):
  Enforce mandatory workspace restarts to apply template updates regardless of
  user activity.
- **Activity bump**: The duration of inactivity that must pass before a worksace
  is automatically stopped.
- **Dormancy**: This allows automatic deletion of unused workspaces to reduce
  spend on idle resources.

## Allow users scheduling

For templates where a uniform autostop duration is not appropriate, admins may
allow users to define their own autostart and autostop schedules. Admins can
restrict the days of the week a workspace should automatically start to help
manage infrastructure costs.

## Failure cleanup (enterprise)

Failure cleanup defines how long a workspace is permitted to remain in the
failed state prior to being automatically stopped. Failure cleanup is an
enterprise-only feature.

## Dormancy threshold (enterprise)

Dormancy Threshold defines how long Coder allows a workspace to remain inactive
before being moved into a dormant state. A workspace's inactivity is determined
by the time elapsed since a user last accessed the workspace. A workspace in the
dormant state is not eligible for autostart and must be manually activated by
the user before being accessible. Coder stops workspaces during their transition
to the dormant state if they are detected to be running. Dormancy Threshold is
an enterprise-only feature.

## Dormancy auto-deletion (enterprise)

Dormancy Auto-Deletion allows a template admin to dictate how long a workspace
is permitted to remain dormant before it is automatically deleted. Dormancy
Auto-Deletion is an enterprise-only feature.
