examples/templates/gcp-windows/README.md, before:

---
name: Develop in Windows on Google Cloud
description: Get started with Windows development on Google Cloud.
tags: [cloud, google]
icon: /icon/gcp.png
---

# gcp-windows

To get started, run `coder templates init`. When prompted, select this template,
and follow the on-screen instructions to proceed.

## Authentication

This template assumes that coderd is run in an environment that is authenticated
with Google Cloud. For example, run `gcloud auth application-default login` to
import credentials on the system and user running coderd. For other ways to
authenticate [consult the Terraform
docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/guides/getting_started#adding-credentials).

## Service account

Coder requires a Google Cloud Service Account to provision workspaces. To create
a service account:

1. Navigate to the [CGP
   console](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectselector/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/create),
   and select your Cloud project (if you have more than one project associated
   with your account)

1. Provide a service account name (this name is used to generate the service
   account ID)

1. Click **Create and continue**, and choose the following IAM roles to grant to
   the service account:

   - Compute Admin
   - Service Account User

   Click **Continue**.

1. Click on the created key, and navigate to the **Keys** tab.

1. Click **Add key** > **Create new key**.

1. Generate a **JSON private key**, which will be what you provide to Coder
   during the setup process.

Commit message:

docs: improve structure for example templates (#9842)
Co-authored-by: Kyle Carberry <kyle@carberry.com>
Co-authored-by: Muhammad Atif Ali <atif@coder.com>
Co-authored-by: Muhammad Atif Ali <me@matifali.dev>

examples/templates/gcp-windows/README.md, after:

---
display_name: Google Compute Engine (Windows)
description: Provision Google Compute Engine instances as Coder workspaces
icon: ../../../site/static/icon/gcp.png
maintainer_github: coder
verified: true
tags: [vm, windows, gcp]
---

# Remote Development on Google Compute Engine (Windows)

## Prerequisites

### Authentication

This template assumes that coderd is run in an environment that is authenticated
with Google Cloud. For example, run `gcloud auth application-default login` to
import credentials on the system and user running coderd. For other ways to
authenticate [consult the Terraform
docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/guides/getting_started#adding-credentials).

Coder requires a Google Cloud Service Account to provision workspaces. To create
a service account:

1. Navigate to the [CGP
   console](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectselector/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/create),
   and select your Cloud project (if you have more than one project associated
   with your account)

1. Provide a service account name (this name is used to generate the service
   account ID)

1. Click **Create and continue**, and choose the following IAM roles to grant to
   the service account:

   - Compute Admin
   - Service Account User

   Click **Continue**.

1. Click on the created key, and navigate to the **Keys** tab.

1. Click **Add key** > **Create new key**.

1. Generate a **JSON private key**, which will be what you provide to Coder
   during the setup process.

## Architecture

This template provisions the following resources:

- GCP VM (ephemeral)
- GCP Disk (persistent, mounted to root)

Coder persists the root volume. The full filesystem is preserved when the workspace restarts. See this [community example](https://github.com/bpmct/coder-templates/tree/main/aws-linux-ephemeral) of an ephemeral AWS instance.

> **Note**
> This template is designed to be a starting point! Edit the Terraform to extend the template to support your use case.

## code-server

`code-server` is installed via the `startup_script` argument in the `coder_agent`
resource block. The `coder_app` resource is defined to access `code-server` through
the dashboard UI over `localhost:13337`.
