docs/admin/prometheus.md, before:

# Prometheus

Coder exposes many metrics which can be consumed by a Prometheus server, and
give insight into the current state of a live Coder deployment.

If you don't have an Prometheus server installed, you can follow the Prometheus
[Getting started](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/getting_started/)
guide.

## Enable Prometheus metrics

Coder server exports metrics via the HTTP endpoint, which can be enabled using
either the environment variable `CODER_PROMETHEUS_ENABLE` or the flag
`--prometheus-enable`.

The Prometheus endpoint address is `http://localhost:2112/` by default. You can
use either the environment variable `CODER_PROMETHEUS_ADDRESS` or the flag
`--prometheus-address <network-interface>:<port>` to select a different listen
address.

If `coder server --prometheus-enable` is started locally, you can preview the
metrics endpoint in your browser or by using curl:

```console
$ curl http://localhost:2112/
# HELP coderd_api_active_users_duration_hour The number of users that have been active within the last hour.
# TYPE coderd_api_active_users_duration_hour gauge
coderd_api_active_users_duration_hour 0
...
```

### Kubernetes deployment

The Prometheus endpoint can be enabled in the
[Helm chart's](https://github.com/coder/coder/tree/main/helm) `values.yml` by
setting the environment variable `CODER_PROMETHEUS_ADDRESS` to `0.0.0.0:2112`.
The environment variable `CODER_PROMETHEUS_ENABLE` will be enabled
automatically.

### Prometheus configuration

To allow Prometheus to scrape the Coder metrics, you will need to create a
`scape_config` in your `prometheus.yml` file, or in the Prometheus Helm chart
values. Below is an example `scrape_config`:

```yaml
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: "coder"
    scheme: "http"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["<ip>:2112"] # replace with the the IP address of the Coder pod or server
        labels:
          apps: "coder"
```

## Available metrics

<!-- Code generated by 'make docs/admin/prometheus.md'. DO NOT EDIT -->

| Name                                                  | Type      | Description                                                        | Labels                                                                              |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `coderd_agents_apps`                                  | gauge     | Agent applications with statuses.                                  | `agent_name` `app_name` `health` `username` `workspace_name`                        |
| `coderd_agents_connection_latencies_seconds`          | gauge     | Agent connection latencies in seconds.                             | `agent_name` `derp_region` `preferred` `username` `workspace_name`                  |
| `coderd_agents_connections`                           | gauge     | Agent connections with statuses.                                   | `agent_name` `lifecycle_state` `status` `tailnet_node` `username` `workspace_name`  |
| `coderd_agents_up`                                    | gauge     | The number of active agents per workspace.                         | `username` `workspace_name`                                                         |
| `coderd_agentstats_connection_count`                  | gauge     | The number of established connections by agent                     | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_agentstats_connection_median_latency_seconds` | gauge     | The median agent connection latency                                | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_agentstats_rx_bytes`                          | gauge     | Agent Rx bytes                                                     | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_agentstats_session_count_jetbrains`           | gauge     | The number of session established by JetBrains                     | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_agentstats_session_count_reconnecting_pty`    | gauge     | The number of session established by reconnecting PTY              | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_agentstats_session_count_ssh`                 | gauge     | The number of session established by SSH                           | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_agentstats_session_count_vscode`              | gauge     | The number of session established by VSCode                        | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_agentstats_tx_bytes`                          | gauge     | Agent Tx bytes                                                     | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_api_active_users_duration_hour`               | gauge     | The number of users that have been active within the last hour.    |                                                                                     |
| `coderd_api_concurrent_requests`                      | gauge     | The number of concurrent API requests.                             |                                                                                     |
| `coderd_api_concurrent_websockets`                    | gauge     | The total number of concurrent API websockets.                     |                                                                                     |
| `coderd_api_request_latencies_seconds`                | histogram | Latency distribution of requests in seconds.                       | `method` `path`                                                                     |
| `coderd_api_requests_processed_total`                 | counter   | The total number of processed API requests                         | `code` `method` `path`                                                              |
| `coderd_api_websocket_durations_seconds`              | histogram | Websocket duration distribution of requests in seconds.            | `path`                                                                              |
| `coderd_api_workspace_latest_build_total`             | gauge     | The latest workspace builds with a status.                         | `status`                                                                            |
| `coderd_metrics_collector_agents_execution_seconds`   | histogram | Histogram for duration of agents metrics collection in seconds.    |                                                                                     |
| `coderd_provisionerd_job_timings_seconds`             | histogram | The provisioner job time duration in seconds.                      | `provisioner` `status`                                                              |
| `coderd_provisionerd_jobs_current`                    | gauge     | The number of currently running provisioner jobs.                  | `provisioner`                                                                       |
| `coderd_workspace_builds_total`                       | counter   | The number of workspaces started, updated, or deleted.             | `action` `owner_email` `status` `template_name` `template_version` `workspace_name` |
| `go_gc_duration_seconds`                              | summary   | A summary of the pause duration of garbage collection cycles.      |                                                                                     |
| `go_goroutines`                                       | gauge     | Number of goroutines that currently exist.                         |                                                                                     |
| `go_info`                                             | gauge     | Information about the Go environment.                              | `version`                                                                           |
| `go_memstats_alloc_bytes`                             | gauge     | Number of bytes allocated and still in use.                        |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_alloc_bytes_total`                       | counter   | Total number of bytes allocated, even if freed.                    |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_buck_hash_sys_bytes`                     | gauge     | Number of bytes used by the profiling bucket hash table.           |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_frees_total`                             | counter   | Total number of frees.                                             |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_gc_sys_bytes`                            | gauge     | Number of bytes used for garbage collection system metadata.       |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_heap_alloc_bytes`                        | gauge     | Number of heap bytes allocated and still in use.                   |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_heap_idle_bytes`                         | gauge     | Number of heap bytes waiting to be used.                           |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_heap_inuse_bytes`                        | gauge     | Number of heap bytes that are in use.                              |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_heap_objects`                            | gauge     | Number of allocated objects.                                       |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_heap_released_bytes`                     | gauge     | Number of heap bytes released to OS.                               |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_heap_sys_bytes`                          | gauge     | Number of heap bytes obtained from system.                         |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_last_gc_time_seconds`                    | gauge     | Number of seconds since 1970 of last garbage collection.           |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_lookups_total`                           | counter   | Total number of pointer lookups.                                   |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_mallocs_total`                           | counter   | Total number of mallocs.                                           |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_mcache_inuse_bytes`                      | gauge     | Number of bytes in use by mcache structures.                       |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_mcache_sys_bytes`                        | gauge     | Number of bytes used for mcache structures obtained from system.   |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_mspan_inuse_bytes`                       | gauge     | Number of bytes in use by mspan structures.                        |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_mspan_sys_bytes`                         | gauge     | Number of bytes used for mspan structures obtained from system.    |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_next_gc_bytes`                           | gauge     | Number of heap bytes when next garbage collection will take place. |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_other_sys_bytes`                         | gauge     | Number of bytes used for other system allocations.                 |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_stack_inuse_bytes`                       | gauge     | Number of bytes in use by the stack allocator.                     |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_stack_sys_bytes`                         | gauge     | Number of bytes obtained from system for stack allocator.          |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_sys_bytes`                               | gauge     | Number of bytes obtained from system.                              |                                                                                     |
| `go_threads`                                          | gauge     | Number of OS threads created.                                      |                                                                                     |
| `process_cpu_seconds_total`                           | counter   | Total user and system CPU time spent in seconds.                   |                                                                                     |
| `process_max_fds`                                     | gauge     | Maximum number of open file descriptors.                           |                                                                                     |
| `process_open_fds`                                    | gauge     | Number of open file descriptors.                                   |                                                                                     |
| `process_resident_memory_bytes`                       | gauge     | Resident memory size in bytes.                                     |                                                                                     |
| `process_start_time_seconds`                          | gauge     | Start time of the process since unix epoch in seconds.             |                                                                                     |
| `process_virtual_memory_bytes`                        | gauge     | Virtual memory size in bytes.                                      |                                                                                     |
| `process_virtual_memory_max_bytes`                    | gauge     | Maximum amount of virtual memory available in bytes.               |                                                                                     |
| `promhttp_metric_handler_requests_in_flight`          | gauge     | Current number of scrapes being served.                            |                                                                                     |
| `promhttp_metric_handler_requests_total`              | counter   | Total number of scrapes by HTTP status code.                       | `code`                                                                              |

<!-- End generated by 'make docs/admin/prometheus.md'. -->

Commit message:

feat: expose prometheus port in helm chart (#10448)
Co-authored-by: Dean Sheather <dean@deansheather.com>

docs/admin/prometheus.md, after:

# Prometheus

Coder exposes many metrics which can be consumed by a Prometheus server, and
give insight into the current state of a live Coder deployment.

If you don't have an Prometheus server installed, you can follow the Prometheus
[Getting started](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/getting_started/)
guide.

## Enable Prometheus metrics

Coder server exports metrics via the HTTP endpoint, which can be enabled using
either the environment variable `CODER_PROMETHEUS_ENABLE` or the flag
`--prometheus-enable`.

The Prometheus endpoint address is `http://localhost:2112/` by default. You can
use either the environment variable `CODER_PROMETHEUS_ADDRESS` or the flag
`--prometheus-address <network-interface>:<port>` to select a different listen
address.

If `coder server --prometheus-enable` is started locally, you can preview the
metrics endpoint in your browser or by using curl:

```console
$ curl http://localhost:2112/
# HELP coderd_api_active_users_duration_hour The number of users that have been active within the last hour.
# TYPE coderd_api_active_users_duration_hour gauge
coderd_api_active_users_duration_hour 0
...
```

### Kubernetes deployment

The Prometheus endpoint can be enabled in the
[Helm chart's](https://github.com/coder/coder/tree/main/helm) `values.yml` by
setting the environment variable `CODER_PROMETHEUS_ADDRESS` to `0.0.0.0:2112`.
The environment variable `CODER_PROMETHEUS_ENABLE` will be enabled
automatically. A Service Endpoint will also be exposed allowing Prometheus
Service Monitors to be used.

### Prometheus configuration

To allow Prometheus to scrape the Coder metrics, you will need to create a
`scape_config` in your `prometheus.yml` file, or in the Prometheus Helm chart
values. Below is an example `scrape_config`:

```yaml
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: "coder"
    scheme: "http"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["<ip>:2112"] # replace with the the IP address of the Coder pod or server
        labels:
          apps: "coder"
```

To use the Kubernetes Prometheus operator to scrape metrics, you will need to
create a `ServiceMonitor` in your Coder deployment namespace. Below is an
example `ServiceMonitor`:

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: coder-service-monitor
  namespace: coder
spec:
  endpoints:
    - port: prometheus-http
      interval: 10s
      scrapeTimeout: 10s
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: coder
```

## Available metrics

<!-- Code generated by 'make docs/admin/prometheus.md'. DO NOT EDIT -->

| Name                                                  | Type      | Description                                                        | Labels                                                                              |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `coderd_agents_apps`                                  | gauge     | Agent applications with statuses.                                  | `agent_name` `app_name` `health` `username` `workspace_name`                        |
| `coderd_agents_connection_latencies_seconds`          | gauge     | Agent connection latencies in seconds.                             | `agent_name` `derp_region` `preferred` `username` `workspace_name`                  |
| `coderd_agents_connections`                           | gauge     | Agent connections with statuses.                                   | `agent_name` `lifecycle_state` `status` `tailnet_node` `username` `workspace_name`  |
| `coderd_agents_up`                                    | gauge     | The number of active agents per workspace.                         | `username` `workspace_name`                                                         |
| `coderd_agentstats_connection_count`                  | gauge     | The number of established connections by agent                     | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_agentstats_connection_median_latency_seconds` | gauge     | The median agent connection latency                                | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_agentstats_rx_bytes`                          | gauge     | Agent Rx bytes                                                     | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_agentstats_session_count_jetbrains`           | gauge     | The number of session established by JetBrains                     | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_agentstats_session_count_reconnecting_pty`    | gauge     | The number of session established by reconnecting PTY              | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_agentstats_session_count_ssh`                 | gauge     | The number of session established by SSH                           | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_agentstats_session_count_vscode`              | gauge     | The number of session established by VSCode                        | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_agentstats_tx_bytes`                          | gauge     | Agent Tx bytes                                                     | `agent_name` `username` `workspace_name`                                            |
| `coderd_api_active_users_duration_hour`               | gauge     | The number of users that have been active within the last hour.    |                                                                                     |
| `coderd_api_concurrent_requests`                      | gauge     | The number of concurrent API requests.                             |                                                                                     |
| `coderd_api_concurrent_websockets`                    | gauge     | The total number of concurrent API websockets.                     |                                                                                     |
| `coderd_api_request_latencies_seconds`                | histogram | Latency distribution of requests in seconds.                       | `method` `path`                                                                     |
| `coderd_api_requests_processed_total`                 | counter   | The total number of processed API requests                         | `code` `method` `path`                                                              |
| `coderd_api_websocket_durations_seconds`              | histogram | Websocket duration distribution of requests in seconds.            | `path`                                                                              |
| `coderd_api_workspace_latest_build_total`             | gauge     | The latest workspace builds with a status.                         | `status`                                                                            |
| `coderd_metrics_collector_agents_execution_seconds`   | histogram | Histogram for duration of agents metrics collection in seconds.    |                                                                                     |
| `coderd_provisionerd_job_timings_seconds`             | histogram | The provisioner job time duration in seconds.                      | `provisioner` `status`                                                              |
| `coderd_provisionerd_jobs_current`                    | gauge     | The number of currently running provisioner jobs.                  | `provisioner`                                                                       |
| `coderd_workspace_builds_total`                       | counter   | The number of workspaces started, updated, or deleted.             | `action` `owner_email` `status` `template_name` `template_version` `workspace_name` |
| `go_gc_duration_seconds`                              | summary   | A summary of the pause duration of garbage collection cycles.      |                                                                                     |
| `go_goroutines`                                       | gauge     | Number of goroutines that currently exist.                         |                                                                                     |
| `go_info`                                             | gauge     | Information about the Go environment.                              | `version`                                                                           |
| `go_memstats_alloc_bytes`                             | gauge     | Number of bytes allocated and still in use.                        |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_alloc_bytes_total`                       | counter   | Total number of bytes allocated, even if freed.                    |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_buck_hash_sys_bytes`                     | gauge     | Number of bytes used by the profiling bucket hash table.           |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_frees_total`                             | counter   | Total number of frees.                                             |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_gc_sys_bytes`                            | gauge     | Number of bytes used for garbage collection system metadata.       |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_heap_alloc_bytes`                        | gauge     | Number of heap bytes allocated and still in use.                   |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_heap_idle_bytes`                         | gauge     | Number of heap bytes waiting to be used.                           |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_heap_inuse_bytes`                        | gauge     | Number of heap bytes that are in use.                              |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_heap_objects`                            | gauge     | Number of allocated objects.                                       |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_heap_released_bytes`                     | gauge     | Number of heap bytes released to OS.                               |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_heap_sys_bytes`                          | gauge     | Number of heap bytes obtained from system.                         |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_last_gc_time_seconds`                    | gauge     | Number of seconds since 1970 of last garbage collection.           |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_lookups_total`                           | counter   | Total number of pointer lookups.                                   |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_mallocs_total`                           | counter   | Total number of mallocs.                                           |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_mcache_inuse_bytes`                      | gauge     | Number of bytes in use by mcache structures.                       |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_mcache_sys_bytes`                        | gauge     | Number of bytes used for mcache structures obtained from system.   |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_mspan_inuse_bytes`                       | gauge     | Number of bytes in use by mspan structures.                        |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_mspan_sys_bytes`                         | gauge     | Number of bytes used for mspan structures obtained from system.    |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_next_gc_bytes`                           | gauge     | Number of heap bytes when next garbage collection will take place. |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_other_sys_bytes`                         | gauge     | Number of bytes used for other system allocations.                 |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_stack_inuse_bytes`                       | gauge     | Number of bytes in use by the stack allocator.                     |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_stack_sys_bytes`                         | gauge     | Number of bytes obtained from system for stack allocator.          |                                                                                     |
| `go_memstats_sys_bytes`                               | gauge     | Number of bytes obtained from system.                              |                                                                                     |
| `go_threads`                                          | gauge     | Number of OS threads created.                                      |                                                                                     |
| `process_cpu_seconds_total`                           | counter   | Total user and system CPU time spent in seconds.                   |                                                                                     |
| `process_max_fds`                                     | gauge     | Maximum number of open file descriptors.                           |                                                                                     |
| `process_open_fds`                                    | gauge     | Number of open file descriptors.                                   |                                                                                     |
| `process_resident_memory_bytes`                       | gauge     | Resident memory size in bytes.                                     |                                                                                     |
| `process_start_time_seconds`                          | gauge     | Start time of the process since unix epoch in seconds.             |                                                                                     |
| `process_virtual_memory_bytes`                        | gauge     | Virtual memory size in bytes.                                      |                                                                                     |
| `process_virtual_memory_max_bytes`                    | gauge     | Maximum amount of virtual memory available in bytes.               |                                                                                     |
| `promhttp_metric_handler_requests_in_flight`          | gauge     | Current number of scrapes being served.                            |                                                                                     |
| `promhttp_metric_handler_requests_total`              | counter   | Total number of scrapes by HTTP status code.                       | `code`                                                                              |

<!-- End generated by 'make docs/admin/prometheus.md'. -->
